# CryptoClustering
Using knowledge of Python and unsupervised learning to predict if cryptocurrencies are affected by 24-hour or 7-day price changes.

Before preparing the data, load the .csv into a DataFrame, generate a summary statistics and plot data. 

## Preparing the data
-Use standard scalar() to fit and transform the data.

-Set "Coin_id" to index and add it to the transformed DataFrame. 


## Find the Best Value for k Using the Original Data.
-Create a list with the number of k-values from 1 to 11.

-Create an empty list to store the inertia values.

-Create a for loop to compute the inertia with each possible value of K

-Plot a line chart with all inertia values to identify the optimal value for k.

-Remember to name the line chart (useful for a future step).


## Cluster Cryptocurrencies with K-means Using the Original Data

-Initialize the K-Means model using the best value for k.

-Fit model with scaled data.

-Add a new column to the DataFrame with the predicted clusters and display data.

-Create a scatter plot using hvPlot. For the labels, x= price_change_percentage_24h and y= price_change_percentage_7d.To identify each crpytocurrency, add the crypto name in the hover_cols.

-Name the scatter plot (useful for a future step).


## Optimize Clusters with Principal Component Analysis.

-Create a PCA model instance and set n_components=3.

-Use the PCA model with fit_transform.

-Calculate explained variance and total of explained variance.

-Create a new DataFrame with the PCA data.

-Copy the crypto names from the original data and set the coinid column as index.

-Display sample data


## Find the Best Value for k Using the PCA Data

- Similar steps as "Find the Best Value for K Using the Original Data", the difference is this is for the PCA data.


## Cluster Cryptocurrencies with K-means Using the PCA Data

-Similar approach as before:

  -Initialize the K-Means model using the best value for k
  
  -Fit the K-Means model using the PCA data
  
  -Create a copy of the DataFrame with the PCA data
  
  -Add a new column to the DataFrame with the predicted clusters and display data
  
  -Create a scatter plot using hvPlot by setting x="PC1", y="PC2", and crypto name as hover_cols. 


##  Visualize and Compare the Results

-Create composite plots: one to contrast the Elbow curves and the other to contrast the clusters.

-Refer to the references on how to create a composite plot.

-As mentioned before, adding a name/label to each plot will come in handy for this step since we are combining all of the plots and graphs.


## Summary of Findings
- The best value for k determined by the elbow method is 4. This choice is based on the observation that a higher number of clusters tends to make the points closer to the centroid.

- Both analyses suggest 4 clusters, but the inertia values differ between the two methods.

-Visual examination of the cluster analysis results indicates that using fewer features doesn't significantly alter the outcome. However, clusters with fewer features may result in more spread-out data points compared to clusters with more features. Specifically, in the analysis, clusters with fewer features showed higher variability in price change percentages, and certain clusters exhibited outliers. This suggests that reducing the number of features may lead to less compact clusters.


## References:
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only. See code for additional references used. README is based on the challenge instructions.
